---
description: Everything you need to know about sending messages to your character.
---

# /chat

Check out how to send a message to your character [here](../quick-start/unity.md). \
\
Sending a message to a Carter character is easy. The `/chat` endpoint supports both text and audio inputs natively. With ASR built into the conversation flow if needed.

{% swagger src="https://api.carterlabs.ai/openapi.json" path="/chat" method="post" %}
[https://api.carterlabs.ai/openapi.json](https://api.carterlabs.ai/openapi.json)
{% endswagger %}

### Text Request

```python
import requests
import json

response = requests.post("https://api.carterlabs.ai/chat", headers={
    "Content-Type": "application/json"
}, data=json.dumps({
    "text": "MESSAGE YOU WANT TO SEND",
    "key": "YOUR API KEY",
    "user_id": "UNIQUE USER ID" # THIS CAN BE ANYTHING YOU WANT!
    "context": "WHAT IS HAPPENING" # OPTIONAL
}))

print(response.json())
```

### Audio Request

```python
import requests
import json

response = requests.post("https://api.carterlabs.ai/chat", headers={
    "Content-Type": "application/json"
}, data=json.dumps({
    "audio": "BASE64 WAVE AUDIO CLIP",
    "key": "YOUR API KEY",
    "user_id": "UNIQUE USER ID" # THIS CAN BE ANYTHING YOU WANT!
    "context": "WHAT IS HAPPENING" # OPTIONAL
}))

print(response.json())
```

### Request Parameters

* **"text":** Used to provide the human's conversational input to the character.
* **"audio"**: Represents a base64-encoded audio clip in the WAVE format. Used to provide audio data to the API as an alternative to text input. If provided, Carter will run the clip through our ASR system.
* **"key"**: Specifies the API key for the character.&#x20;
* **"user\_id"**: A unique identifier representing a user in the system. Can be any string value that uniquely identifies a user.
* **"speak"**: A boolean flag that determines whether the API should use speech synthesis to provide the output as a spoken audio clip using the characters gender (currently).

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Important**: See [user-id-best-practices.md](../concepts/user/user-id-best-practices.md "mention") to learn how to choose a good `user_id` value.
{% endhint %}

### Response

\
Example:

<pre class="language-json"><code class="lang-json">{
<strong>  "output": {
</strong>    "text": "RESPONSE FROM CHARACTER",
    "audio": "AUDIO URL" // will be null if you do not send speak: true in your request
  },
  "input": "INPUT MESSAGE RECIEVED",
  "forced_behaviours": [
    {
      "name": "NAME OF BEHAVIOUR"
    }
  ],
  "agent": {
    "name": "NAME OF AGENT"
  }
}
</code></pre>

**"output"** Represents the output generated by the API in response to the input message.

*   **"text"**: Represents the response text generated by the character or agent.

    * Contains the text-based response that can be presented to the user.
    * Provides the message or information generated by the API based on the input received.


*   **"audio"**: Represents the URL to an audio file generated by the API.

    * Contains the URL of an audio clip that can be played to the user as part of the response.
    * This field will be null if the API request does not include "speak: true" to explicitly request audio synthesis.



**"input"**: Represents the input message received by the API.



**"forced\_behaviours"**: Represents a list of forced behaviours or actions that were triggered by the human's input. Each forced behaviour is specified with the following sub-keys:

* **"name"**: Represents the name of the behaviour to be enforced.



**"agent"**: Represents the agent or character involved in the API's response generation. Includes the following sub-key:

* **"name"**: Represents the name of the agent or character.
